[DX-1720] Gateway release notes 5.7.0 (#5620)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/release-notes/version-5.7.md

<!-- Optional section!
Used to share and notify users about our plan to deprecate features, configs etc. 
Once you put an item in this section, we must keep this item listed in all the following releases till the deprecation happens. -->
<!-- ##### Future deprecations
-->

### Upgrade instructions {#upgrade-5.7.0}
If you are upgrading to 5.7.0, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

### Downloads
- [Docker image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-gateway/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.7.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-gateway:v5.7.0
    ``` 
- Helm charts

>   - [tyk-charts v2.2.0]({{<ref "" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [tyk-charts v2.2.0]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-2.1.md" >}})
```

    **Licensed Protected Product**
    Or
    ****Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))**
-->

**Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))

**This page contains all release notes for version 5.7.X displayed in a reverse chronological order**

## Support Lifetime
<!-- Required. replace X.Y with this release and set the correct quarter of the year -->
Minor releases are supported only until the next minor comes out.

---

## 5.7.0 Release Notes

### Release Date xxx

### Release Highlights
<!-- Required. Use similar ToV to previous release notes. For example for a patch release:
This release primarily focuses on bug fixes.
For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog]({{< ref "#Changelog-vX.Y.0">}}) below.
-->
We are thrilled to announce new updates and improvements in Tyk 5.7.0, bringing more control, flexibility, and performance.  For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog]({{< ref "#Changelog-v5.6.7">}}) below.

#### Add release highlight summary

> Add release highlight description

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tyk is now entering the asynchronous API management space with a bang by delivering Tyk Streams to our users!
Many API management solutions fail to fully support event-driven architectures, causing fragmented management, inconsistent security practices, and increased operational complexity. With event-driven architectures on the rise recently, keeping everything under control and enforcing standards at the organizational level has become a challenge.

**Tyk Streams** is an event streaming solution available within the Tyk API Management Platform, which applies proven API management principles to simplify event and streams handling. 
This release brings capabilities to stream data and events using Kafka, Websocket, SSE and HTTP protocols. It also becomes possible to mediate the message format between Avro and JSON on the fly.

- Merge together various sources of events to present to consumers as a unified stream.
- Apply authentication and authorization to streams of messages, just as you do for your RESTful APIs
- Expose async APIs via Tyk Portal, so that they are easily discoverable

All of this possible in self-managed and k8s deployments of Tyk!

```

Here it is important to explain the benefit of each changelog item. As mentioned by James in a previous Slack message (https://tyktech.slack.com/archives/C044R3ZTN6L/p1686812207060839?thread_ts=1686762128.651249&cid=C044R3ZTN6L):
"...it is important to document the customer impact for the work delivered, so we can share it with prospects/install base. For example:
"New Chart delivers x and y benefit to a and b customer use cases. The business impact for them will be this and that" -->

#### Added
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list of new features. Explain:

- The purpose of the new feature
- How does the new feature benefit users?
- Link to documentation of the new feature
- For OSS - Link to the corresponding issue if possible on GitHub to allow the users to see further info.

Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->
<ul>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Enhanced Stream Analytics Error Handling</summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<summary>Added Stream Analytics Error Handling</summary>
```

> Expanded Streams analytics to capture and report common error scenarios, including broker connectivity issues and standard HTTP errors, ensuring comprehensive request tracking for Streams-processed requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Added to Streams analytics capability to capture and report common error scenarios, including broker connectivity issues and standard HTTP errors, ensuring comprehensive request tracking for Streams-processed requests.
```

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Improved Streams Analytics Integration</summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> Expanded Streams analytics to capture and report common error scenarios, including broker connectivity issues and standard HTTP errors, ensuring comprehensive request tracking for Streams-processed requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Integrated Streams Validator with Streams API</summary>

Connected the new OAS validator to the /streams endpoint, adding proper error handling and validation responses for invalid stream configurations.
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Extended Streams Configuration Validation</summary>

Extended the OAS validator to include Streams configuration validation, enforcing allowlisted components and validating nested broker configurations while implementing schema validation for Streams configurations.
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>New Streams Configuration Validator</summary>

Introduced a new validator derived from the existing OAS schema, adapting it for Streams validation with modified requirements for upstreamURL and x-tyk-streaming fields. This validator is now used by both the Dashboard API streams endpoint and streams configuration validator.
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Improved Logging for Streams</summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<summary>Added Logging for Streams</summary>
```

---
title: Tyk Gateway 5.7 Release Notes
date: 2024-10-08T15:51:11Z
description: "Release notes documenting updates, enhancements, and changes for Tyk Gateway versions within the 5.6.X series."
tags: ["Tyk Gateway", "Release notes", "v5.7", "5.7.0", "5.7", "changelog"]
---

<!-- Required. oss or licensed. Choose one of the following:
    **Licensed Protected Product**
    Or
    ****Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))**
-->

**Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))

**This page contains all release notes for version 5.7.X displayed in a reverse chronological order**

## Support Lifetime
<!-- Required. replace X.Y with this release and set the correct quarter of the year -->

> Our minor releases are supported until our next minor comes out.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Minor releases are supported only until the next minor comes out.
```

| Third Party Dependency                                       | Tested Versions        | Compatible Versions    | Comments | 
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ---------------------- | -------- | 
| [Go](https://go.dev/dl/)                                     | 1.22  |  1.22  | [Go plugins]({{< ref "/plugins/supported-languages/golang" >}}) must be built using Go 1.22 | 
| [Redis](https://redis.io/download/)  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | Used by Tyk Gateway | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3)| v3.0.x                 | v3.0.x                 | Supported by [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "/tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc" >}}) |

Given the potential time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend users verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

### Deprecations
<!-- Required. Use the following statement if there are no deprecations, or explain if there are -->

> There are no deprecations in this release.

Reviewer 3: I think we should mention the EOL of support for sqlite and also deprecation of the two auth middleware!

Here it is important to explain the benefit of each changelog item. As mentioned by James in a previous Slack message (https://tyktech.slack.com/archives/C044R3ZTN6L/p1686812207060839?thread_ts=1686762128.651249&cid=C044R3ZTN6L):
"...it is important to document the customer impact for the work delivered, so we can share it with prospects/install base. For example:
"New Chart delivers x and y benefit to a and b customer use cases. The business impact for them will be this and that" -->

#### Added
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list of new features. Explain:

- The purpose of the new feature
- How does the new feature benefit users?
- Link to documentation of the new feature
- For OSS - Link to the corresponding issue if possible on GitHub to allow the users to see further info.

Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->
<ul>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Support for Custom OAuth Server Response Fields</summary>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

No, this is not for inclusion in the RN

> This update enables the Tyk API Gateway to handle custom data fields from non-standard OAuth 2.0 token responses, like Salesforce’s instance_url. Users can now specify which custom fields to extract from the OAuth server response, storing them in request context for use in other Tyk middlewares. Custom fields are configurable within the API spec under extra_metadata.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

</details>
</li>
</ul>

#### Fixed
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list that describes the issues fixed in the release. For each fixed issue explain:

- What problem the issue caused
- How was the issue fixed
- Link to (new) documentation created as a result of a fix. For example, a new configuration parameter may have been introduced and documented for the fix
- For OSS - Link to the corresponding issue if possible on GitHub to allow the users to see further info.

Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->
<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Resolved HTTP Input Timeout in Tyk Streams</summary>

When using Tyk Streams and sending input via http, the requests sometimes timed out causing a problem for the consumers. The issue has been fixed and now inputs via http for Tyk Streams work as intended.
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>

> <summary>Enhanced OAS Schema Flexibility</summary>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<summary>Improved backwards compatibility when working with Tyk OAS APIs</summary>
```

> Fixed a backwards compatibility issue with schema validation. When downgrading from a Tyk version, schema validation could fail as it didn't allow additional properties. This change relaxes schema strictness to again allow additional properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Fixed a backwards compatibility issue with Tyk OAS API schema validation. When downgrading from a Tyk version, schema validation could fail if new fields had been added to the Tyk OAS API definition. This change relaxes the strictness of validation to allow additional properties.
```

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Optimized Gateway Handling for Large Payloads</summary>

> Fixed a regression that increased memory consumption when proxying large response payloads, even with enable_detailed_recording disabled. The Gateway now handles large payloads more efficiently in terms of speed and memory usage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue that caused increased memory consumption when proxying large response payloads. The Gateway now handles large payloads more efficiently in terms of speed and memory usage.
```

---
title: Tyk Gateway 5.7 Release Notes
date: 2024-10-08T15:51:11Z
description: "Release notes documenting updates, enhancements, and changes for Tyk Gateway versions within the 5.6.X series."
tags: ["Tyk Gateway", "Release notes", "v5.7", "5.7.0", "5.7", "changelog"]
---

<!-- Required. oss or licensed. Choose one of the following:
    **Licensed Protected Product**
    Or
    ****Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))**
-->

**Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))

**This page contains all release notes for version 5.7.X displayed in a reverse chronological order**

## Support Lifetime
<!-- Required. replace X.Y with this release and set the correct quarter of the year -->
Minor releases are supported only until the next minor comes out.

---

## 5.7.0 Release Notes

> ### Release Date xxx

Reviewer: TODO: Update release date when merged.

| Third Party Dependency                                       | Tested Versions        | Compatible Versions    | Comments | 
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ---------------------- | -------- | 
| [Go](https://go.dev/dl/)                                     | 1.22  |  1.22  | [Go plugins]({{< ref "/plugins/supported-languages/golang" >}}) must be built using Go 1.22 | 
| [Redis](https://redis.io/download/)  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | Used by Tyk Gateway | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3)| v3.0.x                 | v3.0.x                 | Supported by [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "/tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc" >}}) |

Given the potential time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend users verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

### Deprecations
<!-- Required. Use the following statement if there are no deprecations, or explain if there are -->

> In 5.7.0, we have deprecated the dedicated [External OAuth]({{< ref "" >}})  (Tyk Classic: `external_oauth`, Tyk OAS: `server.authentication.securitySchemes.externalOAuth`) and [OpenID Connect]({{< ref "" >}})  (Tyk Classic: `auth_configs.oidc`, Tyk OAS: `server.authentication.oidc`) authentication methods. We advise users to switch to [JWT Authentication]({{< ref "" >}}) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 5.7.0, we have deprecated the dedicated [External OAuth]({{< ref "add-url-here"" >}})  (Tyk Classic: `external_oauth`, Tyk OAS: `server.authentication.securitySchemes.externalOAuth`) and [OpenID Connect]({{< ref "add-url-here"" >}})  (Tyk Classic: `auth_configs.oidc`, Tyk OAS: `server.authentication.oidc`) authentication methods. We advise users to switch to [JWT Authentication]({{< ref "add-url-here"" >}}) .
```

Reviewer: @Eopayemi Change the URL. Replace `add-url-here` with actual URL

<!-- Optional section!
Used to share and notify users about our plan to deprecate features, configs etc. 
Once you put an item in this section, we must keep this item listed in all the following releases till the deprecation happens. -->
<!-- ##### Future deprecations
-->

### Upgrade instructions {#upgrade-5.7.0}
If you are upgrading to 5.7.0, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

### Downloads
- [Docker image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-gateway/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.7.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-gateway:v5.7.0
    ``` 
- Helm charts

>   - [tyk-charts v2.2.0]({{<ref "" >}})

Reviewer: For Sharad: This needs to be updated when this PR is merged https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-docs/pull/5719

>   - [tyk-charts v2.1.0]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-2.1.md">}})

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - [tyk-charts v2.2.0]({{<ref "product-stack/tyk-charts/release-notes/version-2.2.md">}})
```

"...it is important to document the customer impact for the work delivered, so we can share it with prospects/install base. For example:
"New Chart delivers x and y benefit to a and b customer use cases. The business impact for them will be this and that" -->

#### Added
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list of new features. Explain:

- The purpose of the new feature
- How does the new feature benefit users?
- Link to documentation of the new feature
- For OSS - Link to the corresponding issue if possible on GitHub to allow the users to see further info.

Each change log item should be expandable. The first line summarises the changelog entry. It should be then possible to expand this to reveal further details about the changelog item. This is achieved using HTML as shown in the example below. -->
<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Added Stream Analytics Error Handling</summary>

Added to Streams analytics capability to capture and report common error scenarios, including broker connectivity issues and standard HTTP errors, ensuring comprehensive request tracking for Streams-processed requests.
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>

</details>

> </li>

Reviewer: This seems unnecessary. Remove it.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/18b1a1e1-020d-49e6-acbd-9ba04d2cde34)

</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Optimized Gateway Handling for Large Payloads</summary>

Fixed an issue that caused increased memory consumption when proxying large response payloads. The Gateway now handles large payloads more efficiently in terms of speed and memory usage.
</details>
</li>
</ul>

#### Security Fixes
<!-- This section should be a bullet point list that should be included when any security fixes have been made in the release, e.g. CVEs. For CVE fixes, consideration needs to be made as follows:
1. Dependency-tracked CVEs - External-tracked CVEs should be included on the release note.
2. Internal scanned CVEs - Refer to the relevant engineering and delivery policy.

For agreed CVE security fixes, provide a link to the corresponding entry on the NIST website. For example:

- Fixed the following CVEs:
    - [CVE-2022-33082](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-33082)
-->

<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Add priority CVEs fixed</summary>

> Add CVE summary

Reviewer: Remove this if not required.
